---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "cloudcix_compute_snapshot Resource - Cloudcix"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Management of Instance Snapshots
  This module provides API endpoints for managing snapshots of virtual machine and container instances
  in the CloudCIX Compute platform. Snapshots are point-in-time backups of running instances that can
  be used for data recovery from a known state. Two snapshot types are
  supported: LXD snapshots (for Linux containers and VMs) and Hyper-V snapshots (for Windows VMs).
  Available operations:
  List and filter snapshots across your projects by type, instance, or stateCreate new snapshots from running LXD or Hyper-V instancesRetrieve detailed information about individual snapshotsDelete snapshots by updating their state
  Each snapshot includes its associated instance, project, creation timestamp, and current state.
---

# cloudcix_compute_snapshot (Resource)

Management of Instance Snapshots

This module provides API endpoints for managing snapshots of virtual machine and container instances
in the CloudCIX Compute platform. Snapshots are point-in-time backups of running instances that can
be used for data recovery from a known state. Two snapshot types are
supported: LXD snapshots (for Linux containers and VMs) and Hyper-V snapshots (for Windows VMs).

Available operations:
- List and filter snapshots across your projects by type, instance, or state
- Create new snapshots from running LXD or Hyper-V instances
- Retrieve detailed information about individual snapshots
- Delete snapshots by updating their state

Each snapshot includes its associated instance, project, creation timestamp, and current state.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "cloudcix_compute_snapshot" "example_compute_snapshot" {
  instance_id = 101
  project_id = 1
  name = "before-windows-updates"
  type = "hyperv"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `instance_id` (Number) The id of the Compute Instance the Compute Snapshot is to be taken of.
- `project_id` (Number) The ID of the User's Project into which this new Compute Snapshots should be added.

### Optional

- `name` (String) The user-friendly name for the Compute Snapshot Resource. If not sent, it will default to the name
"Compute Snapshot"
- `state` (String) Change the state of the Compute Snapshot, triggering the CloudCIX Robot to perform the requested action.
Users can only request state changes from certain current states:

- running -> update_running or delete
- `type` (String) The type of Compute Snapshot to create. Valid options are:
- "hyperv"
- "lxd"

### Read-Only

- `created` (String) Timestamp, in ISO format, of when the Compute Snapshots record was created.
- `id` (Number) The ID of the Compute Snapshots record
- `instance` (Attributes) The Compute Instance the Compute Snapshot record is of. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--instance))
- `metadata` (Attributes) The metadata details of the The metadata details of the "hyperv" Compute Snapshot. Returned if the type
is "hyperv". (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--metadata))
- `specs` (Attributes List) An array of the specs for the Compute Snapshots (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--specs))
- `updated` (String) Timestamp, in ISO format, of when the Compute Snapshots record was last updated.
- `uri` (String) URL that can be used to run methods in the API associated with the Compute Snapshots instance.

<a id="nestedatt--instance"></a>
### Nested Schema for `instance`

Read-Only:

- `id` (Number) The ID of the Compute Instance the Compute Snapshot is of.
- `name` (String) The user-friendly name of the Compute Instance the Compute Snapshot is of.
- `state` (String) The current state of the Compute Instance the Compute Snapshot is of.


<a id="nestedatt--metadata"></a>
### Nested Schema for `metadata`

Read-Only:

- `active` (Boolean) Indicates if the "hyperv" Compute Snapshot is currently active.
- `remove_subtree` (Boolean) Indicates if the "hyperv" Compute Snapshot should remove the subtree when deleted.


<a id="nestedatt--specs"></a>
### Nested Schema for `specs`

Read-Only:

- `quantity` (Number) How many units of a billable entity that a Resource utilises
- `sku_name` (String) An identifier for a billable entity that a Resource utilises

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

The [`terraform import` command](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/commands/import) can be used, for example:

```shell
$ terraform import cloudcix_compute_snapshot.example '<id>'
```
