---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "cloudcix_compute_instance Resource - Cloudcix"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Management of Virtual Machine and Container Instances
  This module provides API endpoints for managing compute instances in the CloudCIX Compute platform.
  Compute instances are virtual machines or containers that run workloads in the cloud. Two instance
  types are supported: LXD (Linux containers and VMs) and Hyper-V (Windows virtual machines).
  Available operations:
  List and filter compute instances across your projects by type, state, or other attributesCreate new LXD or Hyper-V instances with specified resources, network interfaces, and OS imagesRetrieve detailed configuration and status information for individual instancesUpdate instance specifications, network configuration, or change instance state (stop, restart, delete)
  Each instance includes its associated project, resource specifications (CPU, RAM, storage), network
  interfaces, current state, and OS image information.
  Additional Resources:
  Information on available SKUs https://www.cix.ie/#/services/cloud/public_cloudCloud-init User Data Tutorial https://docs.cloudcix.com/tutorials/cloudinit_userdata_tutorial.html
---

# cloudcix_compute_instance (Resource)

Management of Virtual Machine and Container Instances

This module provides API endpoints for managing compute instances in the CloudCIX Compute platform.
Compute instances are virtual machines or containers that run workloads in the cloud. Two instance
types are supported: LXD (Linux containers and VMs) and Hyper-V (Windows virtual machines).

Available operations:
- List and filter compute instances across your projects by type, state, or other attributes
- Create new LXD or Hyper-V instances with specified resources, network interfaces, and OS images
- Retrieve detailed configuration and status information for individual instances
- Update instance specifications, network configuration, or change instance state (stop, restart, delete)

Each instance includes its associated project, resource specifications (CPU, RAM, storage), network
interfaces, current state, and OS image information.

Additional Resources:
- [Information on available SKUs](https://www.cix.ie/#/services/cloud/public_cloud)
- [Cloud-init User Data Tutorial](https://docs.cloudcix.com/tutorials/cloudinit_userdata_tutorial.html)

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "cloudcix_compute_instance" "example_compute_instance" {
  metadata = {
    dns = "dns"
    instance_type = "instance_type"
    ssh_key_names = ["string"]
    userdata = "userdata"
  }
  project_id = 1
  specs = [{
    quantity = 8
    sku_name = "RAM_001"
  }, {
    quantity = 4
    sku_name = "vCPU_002"
  }, {
    quantity = 100
    sku_name = "SSD_001"
  }, {
    quantity = 1
    sku_name = "MSServer2022"
  }]
  grace_period = 72
  interfaces = [{
    gateway = true
    ipv4_addresses = [{
      address = "10.0.0.10"
      nat = true
    }]
    ipv6_addresses = [{
      address = "2a02:2078:9:1234::20"
    }]
  }]
  name = "windows-server"
  type = "hyperv"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `metadata` (Attributes) Optional. The metadata required to configure in an Compute Instance. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--metadata))
- `project_id` (Number) The ID of the Project which this Compute Intsance Resource should be in.
- `specs` (Attributes List) List of specs (SKUs) for the Compute Instance resource. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--specs))

### Optional

- `grace_period` (Number) The number of days after a Compute Intsance is closed before it is permanently deleted.
- `interfaces` (Attributes List) Optional. A list of network interfaces that represent the interfaces that will be configured on the LXD
instance. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--interfaces))
- `name` (String) The user-friendly name for the Compute Intsance type. If not sent and the type is "lxd", it will default
to the name 'LXD'. If not sent and the type is "hyperv", it will default to the name 'HyperV'.
- `state` (String) Change the state of the Compute Instance, triggering the CloudCIX Robot to perform the requested action.
Users can only request state changes from certain current states, with specific allowed target states:

- running        -> stop, delete, or update_running
- stopped        -> restart, delete, or update_stopped
- delete_queue   -> restart or stop
- `type` (String) The type of Compute Instance to create. Valid options are:
- "hyperv"
- "lxd"

### Read-Only

- `created` (String) Timestamp, in ISO format, of when the Compute Instance record was created.
- `id` (Number) The ID of the Compute Instance record
- `updated` (String) Timestamp, in ISO format, of when the Compute Instance record was last updated.
- `uri` (String) URL that can be used to run methods in the API associated with the Compute Instance.

<a id="nestedatt--metadata"></a>
### Nested Schema for `metadata`

Optional:

- `dns` (String) Optional. A string containing IP Addresses, separated by commas, that represent the DNS servers
that the Compute Instance will use.
- `instance_type` (String) Optional, The Compute Instance instance type of the VM. Valid options
are "container" or "virtual-machine". If not sent it will default to "container".
- `ssh_key_names` (List of String) Optional. A list of SSH key names (previously registered via POST /compute/ssh_keys/) to inject
into the instance during provisioning. The public keys are appended to `ssh_authorized_keys` for
the first sudo user defined in the cloud-init userdata. If no sudo user exists, an `administrator`
user is created automatically. Only supported for LXD instances with #cloud-config userdata.
- `userdata` (String) Cloud Init allows Mime Multi-part messages, or files that start with a given set of strings. It is
a requirement to configure at minimum one user with a password or ssh key that is in the sudo group.

Reference: https://cloudinit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/explanation/format.html

A hashed password can be generated using `openssl passwd -6 'yourpassword'`

Example:
```yaml
#cloud-config
users:
  - name: administrator
    groups: sudo
    shell: /bin/bash
    lock_passwd: false
    passwd: < HASHED PASWWORD >
    ssh_authorized_keys:
      - < HASHED PASWWORD >
chpasswd:
  expire: false
ssh_pwauth: true
```


<a id="nestedatt--specs"></a>
### Nested Schema for `specs`

Optional:

- `quantity` (Number) The quantity of the SKU to configure the Compute Instance instance with.
- `sku_name` (String) The name of the SKU to configure on the Compute Instance instacne


<a id="nestedatt--interfaces"></a>
### Nested Schema for `interfaces`

Optional:

- `gateway` (Boolean) Flag representing if this interface will be the Gateway Interface to the Public
Internet.
- `ipv4_addresses` (Attributes List) A list of IPv4 address objects to be assigned to this interface. All addresses in this list
must be from the same network. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--interfaces--ipv4_addresses))
- `ipv6_addresses` (Attributes List) A list of IPv6 address objects to be assigned to this interface. All addresses in this list
must be from the same network as the `ipv4_addresses`. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--interfaces--ipv6_addresses))

<a id="nestedatt--interfaces--ipv4_addresses"></a>
### Nested Schema for `interfaces.ipv4_addresses`

Optional:

- `address` (String) An RFC1918 IPv4 address to be configured on this interface on
the Compute Instance instance.
- `nat` (Boolean) Optional, Flag indicating if this address should be NATted to a Public IP Address.
If not sent, it will default to False.

Read-Only:

- `public_ip` (String) The Public IP address that the address is NATted to. Populated by the API after provisioning.


<a id="nestedatt--interfaces--ipv6_addresses"></a>
### Nested Schema for `interfaces.ipv6_addresses`

Optional:

- `address` (String) An IPv6 address to be configured on this interface
on the Compute Instance instance.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

The [`terraform import` command](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/commands/import) can be used, for example:

```shell
$ terraform import cloudcix_compute_instance.example '<id>'
```
