---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "cloudcix_storage_volume Resource - Cloudcix"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Management of Storage Volumes
  Storage volumes provide additional storage capacity for compute instances.
  Three types are supported:
  CephFS: Network-attached file system volumes that can be mounted to multiple LXD instancesCephRBD: Block Storage volume that can be mounted to a virtual-machine LXD instance.HyperV: Secondary drives attached to Hyper-V instances
  SKU Configuration:
  Storage capacity is specified using SKUs (Stock Keeping Units) with quantity in GB.
  Ceph volumes use Ceph storage SKUs (CEPH_001 for HDD, CEPH_002 for SSD)HyperV volumes use storage SKUs (e.g., SSD_001, HDD_001)
  Available SKUs depend on your region's configured devices.
---

# cloudcix_storage_volume (Resource)

Management of Storage Volumes

Storage volumes provide additional storage capacity for compute instances.

Three types are supported:
- CephFS: Network-attached file system volumes that can be mounted to multiple LXD instances
- CephRBD: Block Storage volume that can be mounted to a virtual-machine LXD instance.
- HyperV: Secondary drives attached to Hyper-V instances

SKU Configuration:
Storage capacity is specified using SKUs (Stock Keeping Units) with quantity in GB.
- Ceph volumes use Ceph storage SKUs (CEPH_001 for HDD, CEPH_002 for SSD)
- HyperV volumes use storage SKUs (e.g., SSD_001, HDD_001)
Available SKUs depend on your region's configured devices.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "cloudcix_storage_volume" "example_storage_volume" {
  project_id = 1
  specs = [{
    quantity = 250
    sku_name = "SSD_001"
  }]
  instance_id = 456
  name = "additional-storage"
  type = "hyperv"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `project_id` (Number) The ID of the Project which this Storage Volume should be in.
- `specs` (Attributes List) List of specs (SKUs) for the Storage Volume drive. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--specs))

### Optional

- `instance_id` (Number) Required if type is "hyperv".

The ID of a Compute Instance with the type "hyperv" the Storage Volume is to be mounted to.
- `metadata` (Attributes) Required if type is "cephfs".

Metadata for the Storage Volume drive with the type "cephfs". (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--metadata))
- `name` (String) The user-friendly name for the Storage Volume type. If not sent and the type is "cephfs", it will default
to the name 'Ceph'. If not sent and the type is "hyperv", it will default to the name 'Storage HyperV'.
- `state` (String) Change the state of the Storage Volume, triggering the CloudCIX Robot to perform the requested action.
Users can only request state changes from certain current states:

- running -> update_running or delete
- `type` (String) The type of Storage Volume to create. Valid options are:
- "cephfs"
  A Ceph file system volume which can be mounted to one or more Compute Instances of the type "lxd"
- "cephrbd"
  A Ceph block volume which can be mounted to one Compute Instances of the type "lxd" that is the
  instance type "virtual-machine"
- "hyperv"
  A volume which can be mounted as a secondary drive to a Compute Instance of the type "hyperv"

### Read-Only

- `contra_instances` (Attributes List) A list of Compute Instances the Storage Volume is mounted to. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--contra_instances))
- `created` (String) Timestamp, in ISO format, of when the Storage Volume was created.
- `id` (Number) The ID of the Storage Volume record
- `instance` (Attributes) The "hyperv" Compute Instance the "hyperv" Storage Volume is attached to. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--instance))
- `updated` (String) Timestamp, in ISO format, of when the Storage Volume was last updated.
- `uri` (String) URL that can be used to run methods in the API associated with the Storage Volumes instance.

<a id="nestedatt--specs"></a>
### Nested Schema for `specs`

Optional:

- `quantity` (Number) The quantity (GB) of the SKU to configure the Storage Volume drive with.
- `sku_name` (String) The name of the SKU for the Storage Volume drive.


<a id="nestedatt--metadata"></a>
### Nested Schema for `metadata`

Optional:

- `attach_instance_ids` (List of Number) A list of IDs for running or stopped Compute Instances with the type "lxd" in the project to
mount this Ceph file system volume to. If not sent, it will default to an empty list.
- `detach_instance_ids` (List of Number) A list of IDs for running or stopped Compute Instances with the type "lxd" in the project to
unmount this Ceph file system volume from. If not sent, it will default to an empty list.
- `mount_path` (String) The mount path for the Ceph file system volume inside the LXC instance.


<a id="nestedatt--contra_instances"></a>
### Nested Schema for `contra_instances`

Read-Only:

- `id` (Number) The ID of the Compute Instance the Storage Volume is attached to.
- `name` (String) The user-friendly name given to the Compute Instance the Storage Volume is attached to.
- `state` (String) The current state of the Compute Instance the Storage Volume is attached to.


<a id="nestedatt--instance"></a>
### Nested Schema for `instance`

Read-Only:

- `id` (Number) The ID of the "hyperv" Compute Instance the "hyperv" Storage Volume is attached to.
- `name` (String) The user-friendly name of the "hyperv" Compute Instance the "hyperv" Storage Volume is attached to.
- `state` (String) The current state of the "hyperv" Compute Instance the "hyperv" Storage Volume is attached to.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

The [`terraform import` command](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/commands/import) can be used, for example:

```shell
$ terraform import cloudcix_storage_volume.example '<id>'
```
